# Tudip Mini Project

This is a backend project built with Node.js, MongoDB, Express, and other dependencies. It provides APIs for managing users, products, offers, carts, and favorite products. The project includes controllers, models, validations, routes, middleware, logs, and a Swagger file. Nodemailer is used for user verification.

## ## Table of Contents

- [Getting Started](#getting-started)
- [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [API Documentation](#api-documentation)
- [Dependencies](#dependencies)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [License](#license)

## Getting Started

To get a local copy of the project up and running, follow these steps.

### Prerequisites

Make sure you have the following software installed on your machine:

- Node.js
- MongoDB

### Installation

1. Clone the repository:

   ```shell
   git clone https://github.com/your-username/tudip-mini-project.git

   ```

2. Install dependencies using the following command:

```shell
npm install
```

3. Set up the configuration file. Create a `.env` file in the root directory and provide the necessary environment variables as per the `config/config.js` file.

4. Start the server using the following command:

```shell
npm start
```

5. The server should now be running on the specified port, and you can access the APIs.

## Project Structure

The project follows a structured directory layout:

- `controllers`: Contains the controllers responsible for handling various API endpoints.
- `models`: Contains the data models for MongoDB.
- `routes`: Defines the routes and maps them to the respective controller methods.
- `config`: Contains configuration files, including database configuration.
- `middleware`: Includes custom middleware functions used in the application.
- `logs`: Stores log files generated by the application.
- `swagger.yaml`: The Swagger file describing the API documentation.

## Dependencies

The project uses the following dependencies:

- `bcrypt`: For password hashing and encryption.
- `body-parser`: To parse request bodies.
- `dotenv`: To load environment variables from the `.env` file.
- `express`: The web application framework.
- `joi`: For data validation.
- `jsonwebtoken`: For generating and verifying JSON Web Tokens (JWT) for authentication.
- `mongoose`: An Object Data Modeling (ODM) library for MongoDB.
- `multer`: For handling file uploads.
- `nodemailer`: For sending emails.
- `nodemon`: A development tool that automatically restarts the server on file changes.
- `swagger-ui-express`: To serve and display Swagger API documentation.
- `winston`: A logging library for Node.js.
- `yaml`: To parse YAML files.

## API Documentation

API documentation is available using Swagger. You can access it by navigating to `/api-docs` in your browser when the server is running.

## License

This project is licensed under the ISC License.

## Author

Created by Rahul Ravidas.
